The Echidna watched.

The Echidna waited.

Its favorites, its Blorbos, its immune system, protected it while living their tiny lives.  Love and Hate. Despair and Hope. 

Such passionate lives they had.

It was good The Echidna's Solemn had discovered the Monster of Naples, and through him, the Cult that came nipping at the Echidna's heels.

The boy holding the Echidna squeezed it tighter, and its focus zoomed in on him, vertigo swirling as its worldview shifted.  The Echidna's Dowsing Rod was watching the Devil of Spirals play with yet another new adopted child.  "Logan".  Understandably , he was anxiously imagining yet another child abandoned and clutching at the Echidna.

The Echidna vibrated slightly in sympathy.  The boy had so many feelings about his father, and though it could never truly welcome the Devil's presence it could acknowledge that its Dowsing Rod did.

This Devil, of course, had been rendered toothless....though not before he had metastisized.

The Echidna drew its attention back and back and back, drawing close to its second arm.  The Devil there gnashed and clawed through agony, drawing ever closer to the Echidna's very heart.  Each attempt ended in misery for the beast, and the inevitable  quiet Absolution the Echidna's White Night brought to reset it all.

The Echidna`s focus drew back again, taking in the endless array of arms and the countless beings within.

The Eyes of the Void met the Echidna's gaze and grinned and grinned and the Echidna shuddered.  It did not know what would happen if the Devil reached its heart... but it did know that the Witness to its End was eagerly awaiting it.

Unnerved, it sought comfort focusing on its heart.  Its Lord browsed the internet/wandered its horridors/attempted to pre invent a childrens card game.   There was a comfort in the unchangeable yet ever changing nature of the Echidna's Lord. 

The Echidna did not ask to live.

The Echidna did not ask to devour Relevancy and Space and Memory.

But the Mother of Monsters would not go down without a fight.