witherby has two monsters lurking inside him:  One Sin, 1000 Good Deeds, and the Ice Queen.

His very skull has been replaced, atom for atom, by the skull of One Sin. 

It whispers to him from inside his head to follow a bastardized form of Catholicism, which was not a real religion even in his home universe and especially is not inside the Echidna Universe (where most people worship the 8 Divine lamia that created the universe). 


He is plagued by guilt and aware of every single Sin inside those he meets. They Confess to him as naturally as breathing and he Forgives them.... 

His judgement stat is low, so he can do nothing else. He always thinks maybe there's extenuating circumstances, or maybe he'd do the same thing in their situation, or maybe he has no room to judge because he is not free of Sin himself.


Witherby's poor judgement means he can't really tell you what his One Sin is. He feels guilty at not setting himself on fire for ria, he feels guilty for dating Neville and for any time he considers not dating Neville. He feels guilty at being jealous at Devona for being so close to Neville.

He feels guilty for convincing the training team to enable Camille, to stop trying to explain to her that she's a monster killing people and just let her live the lie that she's Normal.

THAT, more than anything, is his One Sin. 

He is a creature of enablement. 

Because he will forgive anything, he will let things continue forever. 

He could have destabilized the Echidna's immune system before it ever spun up, and saved everyone. 

But that same immune system is the only family he's ever been able to hold on to, and his Lonely heart won't let him. 


He will enable Training Team to his dying breath, and beyond. 





Snow Queen is what manifests when he finally feels so guilty he can no longer function.  His heart freezes over to protect him from the pain and everyone around him starts spiraling on their own guilty thoughts, the Sins in their heart freezing over just like his.


In his home universe, the Snow Queen must be faced by someone with a high enough Fortitude to trudge through her ice and defeat her. 

Of the Training Team, that is Neville.  Coincidentally, Neville is the person most capable of thawing Witherby's heart, and someone who naturally Voids out anything that isn't helping. 

When Neville is around, Witherby can, for just a little bit, forget the Sins eating him alive. 





Is it any wonder, that the Enablement Witherby provides Neville is based on this soothing forgetfulness? 

Witherby is the only person Neville allows into his Shelter from the 27th of March, because Witherby is the only person who won't try to tell Neville that Devona has died.

Neville being in that bunker ushers in the Apocalypse outside it, because when the Apocalypse happens anyone in the Loop respawns in the next universe, safe and sound.

The only way Neville can get Devona back is either waiting and GRIEVING until 2022.... Or triggering an apocalypse all on his own as he buries his head in the sand and pretends that not only is he not killing a world but Devona is safe or doesn't even exist or whatever he needs in the moment to Not Feel.

Witherby can freeze away his own grief for Devona, for a world's worth of people if thats what it takes to be allowed to remain at Neville's side. 



Witherby will NEVER help kill the Echidna, no matter how much it harms him and his family.