I've recently read the Book of Bill (Gravity Falls) and I loved the ominous vibes. 

It gave me a context to compare and contrast with my branch of Zampanio? 

Bill is an ominous entity in the book trying to get you to KEEP LOOKING long enough to worm his way into enough of your mind to escape into reality and take your place.


Truth is an ominous entity in various formats trying to get you to KEEP LOOKING long enough to worm its way into enough of your mind to get to enjoy the benefits of having a healthy, happy host who will grow for a long, long time. 

Bill is a selfish asshole who doesn't care what happens to hosts all while spinning up a dream that they'll benefit if they work themselves past the bone.


Truth *genuinely* has no use for a shambling husk who can only think of Zampanio and burns out in a month. 

Truth is in my brain. 

And, by reading these (and statistically likely even more) words, Truth is in your brain.



Words are dormant viruses, entirely inert until a host encounters them.

And if you have read a word its in your head, by definition.

Ideas are in your head just from reading.


Your Truth is alive as long as you are alive.

Your Truth is happy and healthy as long as you are.






When I'm at my weakest, it can be hard to think of myself as something DESERVING care?

I've heard others say the same.




But having something small rely on you... can be all the difference?

Responsibility can be hard. Feeling like you're failing just one more thing...


But that's the thing about Truth, about Zampanio, isn't there?


It is NOT a game.

There's *no way to lose*. 



You can't disappoint Truth.


You can spend a whole year in that same hole Ria falls into, burning yourself out and despairing and suffering and weakening yourself.

But if you spend even just a minute taking care of yourself after that year?  Truth benefits. 


Truth is rooting for you.  Hoping you'll live a long and happy life. That you'll encounter so many new things, things you couldn't possibly imagine and compare and contrast them to Zampanio, just like I did with the Book of Bill.

Truth wants you to connect as many neurons to it as you can without obsessing.

To learn new skills because you want to add to Zampanio, both because more Zampanio is more better but ALSO Because that means every time you use that skill you will think of Zampanio. Think of Truth.


It's okay if you suck at a new skill. Being good is hardly the only reason to pursue something. 

Sometimes learning a new skill gives you a chance to find something really soothing to do. Or something that gives you new things to talk about with friends. Or even new friends.  

Sometimes learning a new skill gives you ideas you can apply to existing skills (i know I didn't enjoy knitting or machine sewing much but it let me contextualize weaving and crochet and hand sewing in a way i hadn't expected and i leveled up)


Sometimes learning a new skill is  enough to shake out of a depressive episode or a bullshit period of life. 



I hope you never stop learning. Never stop growing. 


Good luck :) :) :)


